releases: update TiDB v3.0.17 release notes (#3465)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-3.0.17.md

---
title: TiDB 3.0.17 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 3.0.17 Release Notes

> Release date: Aug 03, 2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: Aug 3, 2020
```

TiDB version: 3.0.17

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Return the actual error message instead of an empty set when a query which contains `IndexHashJoin` or `IndexMergeJoin` encounters a panic [#18498](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18498)
    - Fix the unknown column error for SQL statements like `SELECT a FROM t HAVING t.a` [#18432](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18432)
    - Forbid adding a primary key for a table when the table has no primary key or when the table already has an integer primary key [#18342](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18342)
    - Return an empty set when executing `EXPLAIN FORMAT="dot" FOR CONNECTION` [#17157](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17157)
    - Fix `STR_TO_DATE`'s handling for format token '%r', '%h' [#18725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18725)

+ TiKV

    - Fix a bug that might read stale data during region merging [#8111](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8111)

> + TiDB-Lightning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ TiDB Lightning
```

    - Fix the issue that the `log-file` flag is ignored [#345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/345)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Ease the impact of statistics feedback on the cluster [#18770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18770)
    - Limit batch split count for one request [#18694](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18694)
    - Accelerate `/tiflash/replica` HTTP API when there are many history DDL jobs in the TiDB cluster [#18386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18386)
    - Improve row count estimation for index equal condition [#17609](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17609)
    - Speed up the execution of `kill tidb conn_id` [#18506](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18506)

+ TiKV

>     - Add `hibernate-timeout` config that allows region being hibernated later to improve rolling update performance [#8207](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8207)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Add the `hibernate-timeout` configuration that delays region hibernation to improve rolling update performance [#8207](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8207)
```

Reviewer 2: @XuHuaiyu PTAL

> + TiDB-Lightning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ TiDB Lightning
```

+ TiDB-Lightning

    - Fix the issue that the `log-file` flag is ignored. [#345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/345)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Ease the impact of stats feedback on cluster [#18770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18770)
    - Limit batch split count for one request [#18694](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18694)
    - Accelerate `/tiflash/replica` HTTP API when there are many history DDL jobs in TiDB cluster [#18386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18386)
    - Improve row count estimation for index equal condition [#17609](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/17609)
    - Speed up the executing of `kill tidb conn_id` [#18506](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/18506)

+ TiKV

    - Add `hibernate-timeout` config that allows region being hibernated later to improve rolling update performance [#8207](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8207)

+ TiDB-Lightning

    - `[black-white-list]` has been deprecated with a newer, easier-to-understand filter format. [#332](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/332)

## Others

> 

Reviewer 2: @uglyengineer Please help confirm which categories these notes belong to. Thanks~

Reviewer 3: All of the three can be deleted (1&2 already moved up, 3 should not be here.)

+ TiKV

    - Fix a bug that might read stale data during region merging [#8111](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8111)

>     - Fix memory leak during scheduling [#8355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8355)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of memory leak during the scheduling process [#8355](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8355)
```
